src/pages/java/abstract-class/index.md, before:

---
title: Abstract Classes in Java
---

Lets discuss abstract classes. Before diving into this tutorial it is better that you have understood concepts of classes
and inheritance.

Abstract classes are classes that can be subclassed (i.e. extended) but cannot be instantiated. You can think of them as a **class version** of interfaces. 

Consider the following example to understand abstract classes:
You have a class Vehicle which defines certain basic functionality (methods) and certain components (object variables) that a machinery should have, to be classified as a vehicle. You cannot create an object of Vehicle because a vehicle in itself is an abstract concept. You can however extend the functionality of the vehicle class to create a Car or a Bike.

``` java
abstract class Vehicle
{
  //variable that is used to declare the no. of wheels in a vehicle
  private int wheels;
  
  //Variable to define the type of motor used
  private Motor motor;
  
  //an abstract method that only declares, but does not define the start 
  //functionality because each vehicle uses a different starting mechanism
  abstract void start();
}

public class Car extends Vehicle
{
  ...
}

public class Bike extends Vehicle
{
  ...
}
```

You cannot create an object of Vehicle class anywhere in your program. You can however, extend the abstract vehicle class and create objects of the child classes;

``` java
Vehicle newVehicle = new Vehicle();    // Invalid
Vehicle car = new Car();  // valid
Vehicle bike = new Bike();  // valid

Car carObj = new Car();  // valid
Bike bikeObj = new Bike();  // valid
```

Commit message:

Abstract class variables
Clears up potential confusion of differences between abstract classes and normal classes.

src/pages/java/abstract-class/index.md, after:

---
title: Abstract Classes in Java
---

Lets discuss abstract classes. Before diving into this tutorial it is better that you have understood concepts of classes
and inheritance.

Abstract classes are classes that can be subclassed (i.e. extended) but cannot be instantiated. You can think of them as a **class version** of interfaces. 

Keep in mind, subclasses of abstract classes have the same access to members of their respective abstract superclass. There is no difference from inheriting from an abstract class and from a normal class.

Consider the following example to understand abstract classes:
You have a class Vehicle which defines certain basic functionality (methods) and certain components (object variables) that a machinery should have, to be classified as a vehicle. You cannot create an object of Vehicle because a vehicle in itself is an abstract concept. You can however extend the functionality of the vehicle class to create a Car or a Bike.

``` java
abstract class Vehicle
{
  //variable that is used to declare the no. of wheels in a vehicle
  private int wheels;
  
  //Variable to define the type of motor used
  private Motor motor;
  
  //an abstract method that only declares, but does not define the start 
  //functionality because each vehicle uses a different starting mechanism
  abstract void start();
}

public class Car extends Vehicle
{
  ...
}

public class Bike extends Vehicle
{
  ...
}
```

You cannot create an object of Vehicle class anywhere in your program. You can however, extend the abstract vehicle class and create objects of the child classes;

``` java
Vehicle newVehicle = new Vehicle();    // Invalid
Vehicle car = new Car();  // valid
Vehicle bike = new Bike();  // valid

Car carObj = new Car();  // valid
Bike bikeObj = new Bike();  // valid
```
